README.md, before:

# **Remote eXecution Server Maintenance (RXSM)**
Remote eXecution Server Maintenance (RXSM) is a bundle of small scripts used to manage services and run reports on the Raritan Public Library's main server.

## **Installation**

### **Node.js/npm**
First, download or clone the latest version of the RXSM script bundle from this repository. Once you have the repository downloaded in a suitable location, run the following commands to check to make sure you have Node.js and npm installed.
```
node --version
npm --version
```
Then, run the following command to install the necessary npm packages.
```
npm install
```

### **Environment variables**
You'll need to set up an `.env` file with the following variables before running any scripts.
- **`h`** - The hostname for the SSH server to connect to
- **`u`** - The username to use to connect to the server
- **`k`** - The `.ppk` ([PuTTY](https://www.putty.org/) private key) file to authenticate your identity
- **`root`** - The root folder containing this repository (UNIX-style)

## **Usage**

### **Generate a webstat report**
```
npm run report
```
The resulting report will be placed in the `reports` directory under a subdirectory named for the date the report was run (for example, running a report on November 24th, 2019 would write the report to the `reports/20191124` directory).

### **Restart/start/stop a service**
```
npm run service <service_name> <action>
```
`service_name` is a required parameter. `action` is an optional parameter; if not defined, the server will restart.

### **Check for new versions**
```
npm run version
```
A table containing version information for Apache, FreeSSHD, and Destiny will be printed to the terminal.

## **Other Useful Commands**
Due to the nature of some software used on the server, you will need to run these commands in specific circumstances.

### **Renew HTTPS certificate**
*This command should be run directly in the server's terminal.*
```
certbot renew --pre-hook "C:/Apache24/bin/httpd.exe -k stop" --post-hook "C:/Apache24/bin/httpd.exe -k runservice
```

### **Run report script monthly**
You can run the report script at the end of the month using scheduled tasks.

First, create a batch file on your local Windows machine:
```cmd
@echo off
setlocal
FOR /F "tokens=*" %%i in ('type <DOTENV_LOCATION>') do SET %%i
"<SH.EXE_LOCATION>" -c "cd %root% && node --experimental-json-modules %root%/report.js"
endlocal
```
Then, run this command in an elevated instance of Command Prompt.
```cmd
schtasks /create /tn rpl_webstat /tr "<BATCH_FILE_PATH>" /sc monthly /mo lastday /m * /st 23:55 /ru "<COMPUTER_NAME>\<USERNAME>"
```
## **Issues and Contributing**
Pull requests are encouraged by the Raritan Public Library to ensure our software is of the highest quality possible. If you would like to suggest major changes or restructuring of this repository, please [open an issue](https://github.com/raritanlibrary/rxsm/issues/new). It is also strongly suggested you email us at [raritanlibrary54@aol.com](mailto:raritanlibrary54@aol.com).

## **License**

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Report generator now fully written in shell script
Resolves #1.
Node dependancies are no longer needed, so they have been removed.

README.md, after:

# **Remote eXecution Server Maintenance (RXSM)**
**Remote eXecution Server Maintenance (RXSM)** is a small bundle of scripts used to manage services and run reports on the Raritan Public Library's main server.

## **Installation**
Download or clone the latest version of the RXSM script bundle from this repository.
### **Environment variables**
Once you have the repository downloaded in a suitable location, you'll need to set up an `.env` file with the following variables before running any scripts.
- **`h`** - The hostname for the SSH server to connect to
- **`u`** - The username to use to connect to the server
- **`k`** - The `.ppk` ([PuTTY](https://www.putty.org/) private key) file to authenticate your identity
- **`root`** - The root folder containing this repository (UNIX-style)

## **Usage**

### **Generate a webstat report**
```
./report.sh
```
The resulting report will be placed in the `reports` directory under a subdirectory named for the date the report was run (for example, running a report on November 24th, 2019 would write the report to the `reports/20191124` directory).

### **Restart/start/stop a service**
```
./service.sh <service_name> <action>
```
`service_name` is a required parameter. `action` is an optional parameter; if not defined, the server will restart.

### **Check for new versions**
```
./version.sh
```
A table containing version information for Apache, FreeSSHD, and Destiny will be printed to the terminal.

## **Other Useful Commands**
Due to the nature of some software used on the server, you will need to run these commands in specific circumstances.

### **Renew HTTPS certificate**
*This command should be run directly in the server's terminal.*
```
certbot renew --pre-hook "C:/Apache24/bin/httpd.exe -k stop" --post-hook "C:/Apache24/bin/httpd.exe -k runservice
```

### **Run report script monthly**
You can run the report script at the end of the month using scheduled tasks.

First, create a batch file on your local Windows machine:
```cmd
@echo off
setlocal
FOR /F "tokens=*" %%i in ('type <DOTENV_LOCATION>') do SET %%i
"<SH.EXE_LOCATION>" -c "cd %root% && ./report.sh"
endlocal
```
Then, run this command in an elevated instance of Command Prompt.
```cmd
schtasks /create /tn rpl_webstat /tr "<BATCH_FILE_PATH>" /sc monthly /mo lastday /m * /st 23:55 /ru "<COMPUTER_NAME>\<USERNAME>"
```
## **Issues and Contributing**
Pull requests are encouraged by the Raritan Public Library to ensure our software is of the highest quality possible. If you would like to suggest major changes or restructuring of this repository, please [open an issue](https://github.com/raritanlibrary/rxsm/issues/new). It is also strongly suggested you email us at [raritanlibrary54@aol.com](mailto:raritanlibrary54@aol.com) with any additional questions or concerns.

## **License**

[MIT](LICENSE)
